What is Android?
Android is the name of the mobile operating system owned by Google.  It most commonly comes installed on a variety of smartphones and tablets from a host of manufacturers offering access to to Google's own services such as Search, YouTube, Gmail, Maps, and more.
This means you can easily look or informatoin on the web, watch videos, search for directions and write emails on your phone or tablet, just as you would on your home computer, but there's more  to Android than meets the eye.
Android phones are highly customizable and can be altered to suit your needs; with wallpapers, themes, and launchers that can completely change the look of the interface.  Apps are programs that allow you to do many things.
How do you track memory leaks?
Memory leaks occur when object references that are no longer needed are unnecessarily maintained.  They put unnecessary pressure on your machine as your program consume more and more resources.  Detecting these leaks can be difficult: static analysis often struggles to precisely identify redundant references..There are four categories of memory issues.  These are performance, resource constraints, Java heap leaks (objects continuous created without being released), and native memory leaks (constantly growing memory utilization that is outside of the Java heap).
There are four methods of tracking memory leaks.  The first one will be identifying the symptoms.  The compiler will be your best friend here when you receive a OOM (Out of memory) runtime exception, meaning that your memory resources have run out.  The second way to track memory leaks is by enabling the verbose garbage collection, which allows you to trace each time garbage collection has started.  This allows you to see how the memory is being managed by your application. Another method is heap profiling, which are trace files that show heap activity, including the type and size of heap objects.  The last method is to analyze the trace, which is generated by the Java visual VM.
What are the ways you use to debug a program?
1) Interactive debugging
2) Print debugging or watching trace statements (live or recorded)
3) Remote debugging or debugging a program running on a system different than the debugger.
4) Post-mortem or debugging a program after it has crashed.  This can involve analysis of the memory dump.
5) "Wolf fence" algorithm created by Edward Gauss.
6) Delta Debugging which is a technique of automating test cases.
7) Saff Squeeze - isolating failure within a test using progreessive inlining of parts of the failing test.

What is Android's architecture?
System Apps - these are core applications that provide key capabilities that developers can access from their own applications.
Java API - These APIs are written in Java and form the building blocks needed to create apps.  These include: 
1) A view system used to build an app's UI
2) Resource manager - provides non-code resources
3) Notification manager - enables all apps to display custom alerts.
4) Activity Manager - manages the lifecycle of apps and provides a common navigation back stack.
5) Content providers - enables apps to access data from other apps.
Native C/C++ LIbraries - some of the core components are built from native code that require native libraries.  The platform provides Java framework APIs to expose functionality of some of these native libraries to apps.
Android Runtime (ART) - devices running Android 5.0 and above has its own process and its own instance of the ART.  The ART is used to run multiple virtual machines on low-memory devices.  Some features include:  AOT and JIT compilation, optimized GC, and better debugging support, such as setting watchpoints to monitor specific fields.
Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) - provides standard interfaces that expose device hardware capabilities to the Java API framework.
Linux Kernel - the core of the Android platform.
What is the difference between Dalvik and ART?
Dalvik and ART are two different runtime environments for Android. Prior to Android KitKat, Dalvik was used as the JIT compiler, which was used to optimize and improve application performance.  When Android Lollipop was introduced, ART was introduced and replaced Dalvik.
What are 9-patch images?
9-patch images are images that automatically resize to accomodate the contents of the view and the size of the screen.  Selected parts of the image are scaled horizontally or vertically based on indicators drawn within the image.
How do you support phones and tablets?
There are three general guidelines for building apps that effectively support tablets and phones:
1) Build your activity designs based on fragments
2) Use the action bar
3) Implement flexible layouts
The main take-away from these guidelines is that you want to build your apps using fragments because they allow reuse by decoupling specific content and/or functionality from an activity.  Instead of building out each screen as a unique activity, use a single activity and host multiple fragments.
How do you support multiple languages?
Apps include resources that can support a specific culture.  It's good practice to keep culture-specific resources separated from the rest of your app.  Android resolves language and culture-specific resources based on the system locale setting.  You can support different locales by using the resources directory in the Android project.