What is a service?  A service is an application component that can perform long-running operations in the background, and it does not provide a user interface.  For example, a service can handle network traffic, play music, do file I/O, or interact with a content provider, all from the background.
What are the types of services in Android?  There are three types of services:  Scheduled, Started, and Bound.
What is an Intent Service?  Intent service is a subclass of Service that uses a worker thread to handle all of the start requests, one at a time.
What is the difference between Services and Intent Services?  Services are a broader interpretation for the developer to set up background operations.  Services either run long-term operations while not interacting with the user or supplies other applications functionality.  
Intent services are used for "fire and forget" operations, taking care of background Thread creation and cleanup.  Clients send requests through a startService method.  This service runs as needed, handles each Intent using a worker thread, and stops itself when it runs out of work.
What is AIDL?  The Android Interface Definition Language (AIDL) is similar to other interface definitions languages.  It allows you to define the programming interface that both the client and service agree upon in order to communicate with each other using interprocess communication (IPC).
What is IBinder?  IBinder is the base interface for a remotable object, the core part of a lightweight remote procedure call mechanism designed for high performance when performing in-process and cross-process calls.   This interface describes the abstract protocol for interacting with a remotable object.  You normally do not interact with this interface, rather you extend it from the Binder class.
What are Bound Services?  A bound service is the server in a client-server interface.  It allows components (such as activities) to bind to the service, send requests, receive responses, and perform IPC.  A bound service typically lives only while it serves another application component and does not run in the background indefinitely.
What is the Sync Adapter?  The sync adapter component encapsulates the code for the tasks that transfer data between a device and the server.  The sync adapter framework runs the code in the sync adapter component based on the scheduling and triggers you provide in the app.
What are services used for?  Services can handle network transactions, play music, perform file I/O, or interact with a content provider.
What is my favorite Android application?  While most of my favorite apps are games, my favorite native Android app is the movie player and book reader.
Richard Broyles